This project investigates whether large language models can propose physically feasible and scientifically meaningful experiments when given a list of physical resources. While recent LLM based research had tested agent’s ability to write code or call simulation tools for research, there are few works testing agent’s ability to propose physical experiments. In many fields of engineering, including additive manufacturing, welding design, and battery cell design, all final outputs rely on physical experimental results over simulation tools, and LLM agents that excels on designing these experiments would help researchers. These experiment design should consider multiple criteria to make it a valuable experiment, such as analytical feasibility, statistical validity, and significancy of the experiment with respect to SOTA academic literature. The central question of this project is whether an agentbased LLM system grounded in a structured bill of materials can generate higher quality experiment proposals than a standard LLM baseline. The proposed method integrates three main components. First, a resource-grounded representation will be constructed by extracting bills of materials (BOM), objectives, and procedural constraints from published experimental papers. This process would consist of RAG based systems, with API pipelines. aiding the access of academic paper retrieval, such as the elsapy python library. Second, we’ll introduce an experiment designing LLM agent that has access to the rag database of relevent papers, with and without access to the generated BOMs. We’ll test multiple agents here, big SOTA LLMs (Claude, Gemini, ChatGPT), and also open source models like Llama, Qwen, etc. We’ll compare their performance against a fine-tuned open source model. Third, structured validator agents will evaluate feasibility, novelty, and statistical soundness using explicit pass or fail criteria. We’ll use a independant big SOTA LLM, with a brief review of the validator’s performance by running through the thinking process and tell if we can trust LLM based systems as validator
